=head1 NAME

Linux::Dmesg - Perl extension for access to klogctl() functions. This allows reading
from the kernel console printk buffer as used by the dmesg(8) command.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

use Linux::Dmesg;

my $dmesg = Linux::Dmesg::dmesg;


=head1 DESCRIPTION

The Linux::Dmesg module allows direct access to the functions provided by the klogctl(2)
interface. The most common usage is to read the kernel printk console buffer. The root user
also has access to other functions to clear the buffer, enable/disable the logging and set
the logging levels.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

The following functions are exported by the C<Linux::Dmesg> module.
None of these functions are exported by default.

=over 4

=item dmesg($level)

Returns the current kernel message bufffer ring. The log level at the start of each line
is removed. An optional level can be specified and only messages at this level or lower
will be returned. See LEVELs below.

=item read_buffer

Returns the current kernel message buffer ring without removing the log level at the start
of each line.

=item read_clear_buffer

Returns and clears the current kernel message buffer ring without removing the log level at the start
of each line. Requires root permission.

=item clear_buffer

Clears the current kernel message buffer ring. Requires root permission.

=item disable_printk

Disables printk to the console. Requires root permission.

=item enable_printk

Enables printk to the console. Requires root permission.

=item printk_level(l$evel)

Set the console printk level. See LEVELS below. Requires root permission.

=item unread_count

Returns the number of unread characters in the buffer.

=item buffer_size

Returns the size of the buffer.

=back


=head1 EXPORT

None by default.


=head1 LEVELS

The following log levels are defined and exported as constants:

=over 4

=item KERN_EMERG    0  The system is unusable

=item KERN_ALERT    1  Action must be taken immediately

=item KERN_CRIT     2  Critical conditions

=item KERN_ERR      3  Error conditions

=item KERN_WARNING  4  Warning conditions

=item KERN_NOTICE   5  Normal but significant condition

=item KERN_INFO     6  Informational

=item KERN_DEBUG    7  Debug-level messages

=back

=head1 INSTALLATION

See perlmodinstall for information and options on installing Perl modules.

=head1 SEE ALSO

syslog(2), klogctl(2), dmesg(8)

=head1 AUTHOR

Simon Evans, E<lt>si@si.orgE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2012 by Simon Evans

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language itself.

=head1 DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY

BECAUSE THIS SOFTWARE IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY
FOR THE SOFTWARE, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT
WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER
PARTIES PROVIDE THE SOFTWARE "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
SOFTWARE IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE SOFTWARE PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME
THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR, OR CORRECTION.

IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR
REDISTRIBUTE THE SOFTWARE AS PERMITTED BY THE ABOVE LICENCE, BE LIABLE
TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE
SOFTWARE (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE SOFTWARE TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF
SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES.


